>> Scott Moss: Let's see the same for
events.
So let's go make our events one.
I'm gonna make its own file
inside the utils folder.
I like to keep all these things separate.
I rather have one file with one function
in it than, I rather have many files,
each with one function in it than
one file with five functions in it.
Maybe there's people feel differently but
that's just me.
So we have our events.
>> Scott Moss: Same thing here.
Well actually, we're not gonna
use this memoized thing yet.
I like you didn't see this.
We're not gonna use it right now.
We'll use it later.
Don't look at that.
>> Scott Moss: So,
we're gonna export getEventsForDashboard.
That's an async function.
Takes in a userId, I think.
Yes, it does.
We're gonna simulate a delay here.
>> Scott Moss: And then this query is a
lot simpler, so I'm just gonna copy this,
but I'll walk through it.
This query is using drizzles query syntax
versus more than native dot select syntax.
So this is actually a lot
closer to what Prisma does.
So I'm querying the events table.
I wanna find many where the createdById
equals the given userId and
I wanna select these columns and
I wanna join this table and
I wanna limit to five and I wanna order
by the ascending events.startOndate.
So it will show me the oldest ones first
down to the newest ones on the start date,
because if this is the start
date of the event,
that means the older one at
the top is the one that's
about to show that's
the most upcoming one.
That's the one that's about to
start sooner than the rest,
because its date is older, therefore less.
Okay, so
we got that same concept server only.
Everything's the same
here we've got our delay.
Let's go add this to our events page.
So we'll go here, have our event slot.
We're going to add I have async here.
Wait, did I do that in the page?
Did I do async?
I just realized that.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, I did, I'm perfect.
All right, so we'll do async here,
and then we'll get our user.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, and
then we'll get the data.
So that'll be await,
getEventsForDashboard,
take some user.id, and
then let's get the JSX for that.
Wait, I guess I need to return the data?
Sorry about that.
>> Scott Moss: I'm just going to
return the data or empty array.
That way it won't break my map inside
of my page, so it's always an array.
>> Scott Moss: Just in case this does it.
So we got that.
>> Scott Moss: And then the JSX is
a little more complicated here.
This is not a UI course, so
not really gonna talk too much about it.
So I'm just gonna grab these
imports and the wrong file.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: And then let's get our JSX.
Okay.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, okay, so
I'm gonna change this to events.
There we go.
This is really just like making like
a table with some columns in it.
And you can click on one of the events,
we'll make that page later.
Nothing too specific, using some of
the components from the component library,
feel free to check it out.
If you don't react,
it'll make sense to you.
It's nothing crazy.
So let's see if that loads up.
>> Scott Moss: There we go,
so latest events, loads up.
If you hover over this or this,
you'll see it'll try to link to
some page we haven't created yet.
You'll get a 404 if you try to go there,
probably, yep.
Loads up pretty good.
If we refresh, it's still there.
I do a hard refresh, it's still there.
Maybe you want that,
maybe you don't want that.
What if a new event came in?
Does it get it, who knows?
>> Scott Moss: And then for
the last one, we'll do the RSVPs.
So RSVPs is a little more difficult
query because the schema's bad.
So let's do that.
We'll go to utils.
Make another one, rsvps.
>> Scott Moss: And we call this function
getRsvpsForDashboard, so let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: And
this one takes in a userId.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
Wait, our delay.
And then I'm just going to
bring in this query logic.
So I'll talk about this a little bit.
Basically what I'm doing here,
using the query builder from Grizz.
I wanna find many events where
the createdById equals the current
userId select the ID of all
those events only continue.
There's actually if this
user has events if they do,
then I want to select from the attendees
table, make sure they're distinct,
so d dupe them where in rsvp.eventId
is one of these usersEventsIds.
And I can get rsvp cuz I'm
joining it to an attendee cuz
an attendee has a one to many
relationship with rsvps.
So one attendee can have many rsvps so
I can join on here.
And then I can join the events on the rsvp
because the rsvp knows what event it
is for.
And that's how I'm able
to access those and
then just order by
the createdAt descending so
I can show the latest rsvp at the top
with the oldest ones at the bottom.
And that's what this is.
So I get back, actually get back
an array that looks It's kind of weird.
It has like an events object,
which is just one event.
It gets back rsvp object or
rsvps object, which is just one.
And attendees, which is just one,
it's like an array of all of those.
So it's kind of weird how it's formatted,
but there it is.
And then the JSX for that.
I'm just gonna copy this right quick.
>> Scott Moss: And
we'll go into the RSVPs or
RSVPs, here we go.
So for this one, we get our imports in,
and then for the JSX,
we first, let's get the user and
let's get the data.
So async user awaits, getCurrentUser.
And then what do I call it events =
await get, what did I call it?
>> Scott Moss: RsvpsForDashboard.
I don't know why I'm calling them events,
but
rsvpsForDashboard takes in a user.id.
There we go.
And then from here, all of this JSX,
which is not innovative or
important but necessary.
>> Scott Moss: So I'll just loop over
those, and it's gonna be another table
similar to the one that we just did,
just slightly different.
Put those on the page really like I said,
nothing special, just, JSX.
The important part is
what's going on here.
So let's see if that loads up.
>> Scott Moss: And it does, but does it?
[LAUGH] Let's see, so.
>> Student: The notion doc is
importing events again there,
the GitHub is different then.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
yeah, that makes sense.
I might have wrote it wrong in notion.
That's okay.
Let's go to GitHub and get it and
I'll fix it in the notion.
So let me go to GitHub, go to my app,
go to dashboard, RSVPs, page.
Yeah, it's way different.
That's why I was looking at it,
I don't know if that's the same.
So let's try this,
data and do that.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
now let's see if this loads.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: So now we have our three
slots loading data independently from
each other.
>> Scott Moss: And they're all
their own pages, but they're yet
still in the same layout.
And if we go to, well, I guess we'll have
to wait to make this route to go to it,
but we only wanna show this layout.
If the path name, eco/dashboard, if we go
somewhere else, we don't want this layout,
but we'll wait till we make some
more pages for that to happen.
The way I think about it is like,
it actually works the way you
think a React component will work.
Like who here, the first time they
ever used React was like, yeah,
I'm just gonna call a promise
at the top of this component.
Wait, that doesn't work.
I got to put it in a,
well back then a life cycle method.
And then now it's like a use effect, but
it works the way you think
a regular function would work.
So to me, it's easier to understand.
Yeah, you got a question.
>> Student: Yeah, I was curious, so
with the interactions between a server
component and a server action,
one of the benefits then being
able to keep the server state
in sync with the client.
If you were to perform a server action
that maybe updates a user as an RSVP,
how would that behave within the React
server component in this context?
>> Scott Moss: So if you wanted to
take one of these and like update it,
is that what you're saying?
>> Student: Yeah, exactly.
>> Scott Moss: Yes, well,
in this example, so
if you wanted to stay within like
the whole server actions ecosystem,
you'd have to go make a client component
that you would bring inside of here.
And then that client component would
import a server action that did
the update.
And then you can pass in as a prop,
whatever you want into that component.
So in this case, like a rsvp id,
the things you wanna update, and
then that component can render
that because you won't.
You won't be using the server actions
inside this server component because
there's no way to capture an interaction
like an on click or something like that.
So how would it know when you
want it to run the server action?
So the server action has to
run on some client component.
So that's how that would work.